Before I go into the specific topic of the exercise and the tasks involved,
I want you to give you a lay of the land and
show you the code that we're going to be working with today.
As I mentioned earlier,
this represents a Smart Contract for a flight data oracle.
It does both the task of registering the oracles and then interacting with them;
receiving and sending the data.
So I want to take a minute here to quickly review some of the data structures etc.
So that you're familiar with them once you embark on the specific tasks.
Our data structures here,
we have some constants here that need a little bit of explanation.
As I mentioned, we have a stake,
that's the registration fee,
so it's one ether.
Later on, you might want to think about
more sophisticated systems where
the registration fees dynamic based on number of participants,
the tasks involved etc.,
or new registration fee if that is the right scenario.
We talked earlier about having a certain threshold that has to be
crossed in order for the Smart Contract to accept the oracle data.
In this case, that's the min responses constant and that value is currently set to three.
For keeping things simple,
our flight status has just two possibilities;
on time and not on time represented by two numbers.
So the range of the numbers exist in order to allow you
to add more granular statuses in the future.
We have a data structure here for tracking all our oracles.
If you go back to the diagram and recollect that
we had three index items that each oracle would have,
that's what this array would represent.
A three is an arbitrary number.
Again, even the process of having this technique of using
an index that limits which oracle will perform a task is arbitrary.
It's designed to help you understand that
there are many different schemes and ways in which you
can manage a large number of public untrusted oracles.
This is just one simple one.
It's probably not completely bulletproof but
it suffices for the purpose of an exercise especially in the context of learning.
We have here a data structure that represents
the response that are collected from oracles.
So we have the original requester who requested the data to be
fetched whether the request for oracles to submit data is open or closed.
So once the threshold of main responses is reached,
you would change this variable to false and that
would prevent oracles from submitting more data.
Finally, you track all the responses for the different oracles.
Now, you might see this mapping here and wonder,
well why is it a mapping if the oracles are just returning numeric data in this case?
It's on time and not on time and they are just two numbers, 10 or 99.
Why not have an array of information or something like that?
Well, there's a reason for this.
You cannot assume in your Smart Contract that
every oracle is going to return the desired correct data.
You might have for the same scenario,
multiple oracles returning different data and you must allow for that possibility.
Now you could me certainly discard the incorrect information.
But in almost every Smart Contracts scenario that involves oracles,
you're going to reach a point where you have to make
decisions and you cannot make good decisions absent data.
So it's a good idea to collect and store all the data provided by
oracles and then evaluate which one is the one you want to trust.
This is also a good way for you to help build reputation within your Smart Contract.
So you can decide if an oracle is consistently
providing incorrect or invalid information compared to its peers.
That oracle probably needs a low reputation and lower trust in your Smart Contract.
So this particular line here,
mapping uint8 address array responses
is designed to store all the data and capture all the information.
So the Smart Contract can get smarter and perhaps even block oracles that
are consistently doing malicious things or providing bad data.
The next data item here,
is the actual mapping where the responses are tracked.
Now the reason we want to do this is we want to ensure
that every response that comes in has a unique key and is tracked.
So in a moment here,
we'll talk about how the key is being created,
but it's essentially a hash of the index flight and timestamp.
We'll talk about the specifics in a moment.
The first event we have here is flight status info.
So this is the event that was ultimately triggered by
the Smart Contract after the data has been received by the oracles and processed.
That contains the the flight information,
a timestamp for the flight,
the status, whether it was on time or delayed,
and finally, if the information has been verified yet or not.
In this particular Smart Contract,
you will see that we are using a model where every time
an oracle response and provides data,
we go ahead and emit a flight status info note event.
However, the flag verified only becomes true after
the internal rules for determining if the oracle data is valid,
is changed at that time.
So initially that value will be false.
For posterity, we also track all the data related to flights that
we've received in order to handle any potential disputes that might occur in the future.
Of course, it's the block chain things are immutable so it
reduces the possibility of disputes because the data is all there.
But for that possibility to exist,
we do need to have the data and so why this little extra storage?
We'll go ahead and save the flight information also.
So let's get to the specifics of the exercise.
So you're going work with this function here called registerOracle.
There are three tasks,
you can see them in code but we also have them on the slide here.
So let's look at them in detail.
So the first thing you're going to do is add missing code in that function.
You are going to add the code to require a registration fee
of the amount of the constant REGISTRATION_FEE from the oracle that is being registered,
so use a standard require for that.
There's a function in the contract called generateIndexes().
You can use that to generate three random indexes,
each in the range zero to nine,
for the oracle that is being registered.
So you need to call that function and generate those indexes.
Finally, you need to assign those generated indexes to
the oracle and save that oracle to the contract state.
So that's the scope of the exercise. Let's start now.